Today we will see how to do all due diligence process up to the upload.
It's a very simple step but it can save you lots of time.
It can save you from lots of errors it can even save your career sometimes.
So here you can see that we were starting to upload 50000 for those some of them went into the insufficient
data flat file some someone to bad records flat file and some of them went into our database.
So what we're going to do is we're going to compare the number of rows in the database to the number
of rows that we see here that went into this database.
And you might say Well Carol this is obvious as well.
Where else could have they gone.
They obviously went into that table.
Why do we need to compare.
There's definitely going to be that number rose.
Well let's first do it and then I will explain why we're doing it.
So we're going to open up Asgill.
We're going to find out table fake names.
Select top 1000 rows and now instead of the thousand rows what we're going to do is we're going to get
rid of everything between select and from.
And now we're going to replace that with a simple command which is count and then we'll put a star which
means count all of the rows count basically everything from this table and then will execute.
Here it says the number of rows right away.
Forty nine thousand eight hundred sixty eight.
So let's go back to ISIS and understand and see if that's the right number.
That is correct.
So that is the very basic.
The very first essential check that you have to do after you run an sss project now answering the question
why you need to perform this check.
Well there might be reasons technical reasons why some of the data might have not been uploaded but
I'm hopeful that Sosias would pick something up like that and tell you about it.
The main reason why we check is the human factor.
It's the most common and most obvious reason and I'll give you a simple example.
Say for instance you're developing this package as we were throughout the section and at some point
you know you run it and then you decide to add a conditional split you added in.
And then you run it again and you forgot to truncate the table you completely forgot that you need to
empty the table first and then run the package.
What would happen then.
Well as you remember these files get overwritten but the table the database the table in the database
it doesn't get truncated romantically and that means that you would add more rows into your table and
that can cause lots and lots of problems meaning that you know you'll have duplicate records all of
your Montse will be double for instance if you're analyzing sales then your sales will be double.
Our real loss will be double and you know the number of people that work in your company or customers
or whatever you are analyzing will be double.
And every time you run a little ill increase increase increase and people lose careers over this just
because of a simple mistake like that just because they didn't check that the number of road matches
to what they applauded.
People can lose their jobs people report the wrong things.
And you know it's a very easy mistake to make.
So if you get into the habit of performing the simple very easy count after your upload and hopefully
you know even recording it somewhere that when you uploaded the count was correct then you might save
yourself a lot of trouble one day.
So that's how you check.
That's a basic check.
Other checks that you could do is you know select top thousand rows you could look through this here
and just make sure that you know it looks right you're not looking for anomalies or anything you just
know you're looking at it's been uploaded in English or that if it's in another language that there's
no problems with the text.
Something obvious that jumps out straight at you.
And depending on what type of daughter you're working with in your career and your job you will develop
you know you'll naturally come up with these simple things that you should look out for you know maybe
every time you upload data there has to be.
There just has to be a phone number and you can check that the wrong number is present in your daughter
said or something like that.
And so that's your basic check for uploading data.
I highly encourage you to get into the habit of counting neuros once the data has been uploaded.